.TH ITS-NET 1 "June 2026" "v0.1.0" "ITS-net Security Reference"
.SH NAME
its-net \- Information-Theoretic Secrecy (ITS) Onion Routing & Ambient Entropy Harvesting CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B its-net
[\fB\-c \fIconfig_file\fR] [\fB\-h\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.I COMMAND
[\fIARGS...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B its-net
is a bare-metal, high-performance, and mathematically impregnable shadow network tool designed for Information-Theoretic Secrecy (ITS) routing.
Unlike traditional networks (Tor, Nym) which rely on computationally hard problems (RSA, ECC, AES),
.B its-net
guarantees perfect secrecy (unbreakable even with infinite computational power) by utilizing Shamir's Secret Sharing (SSS) chained over a finite field modulus of Z_{2^31-1}.
.PP
The application supports Morphic Network Coding (MNC), Homomorphic Path Attestation, Onion-chaff routing, and Ambient Entropy Harvesting (AEH).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c ", " \-\-config " config_file"
Specify the path to the TOML configuration file. Defaults to /etc/its-net/config.toml if present.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Show the standard help menu and exit.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-version
Print the software version and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B start\-node
Initialize and run an active, bare-metal VPS routing node. This node processes packets stateless-ly using Morphic Network Coding and outputs continuous constant-rate chaff packets when idle to mitigate traffic-analysis.
.TP
.B client\-send
Fragment, onion-encrypt, and inject a secret payload. Can be routed through active SSS-chained nodes or injected passively into external chaotic telemetry streams.
.TP
.B client\-receive
Reconstruct and verify messages from received secret shares in constant-time.
.TP
.B status\-audit
Perform timing diagnostics, cache-flushes, and check for active routing anomalies/honeypots.
.TP
.B verify\-path
Perform Lagrange interpolation at x=0 on homomorphic probe-shares to algebraically verify the route integrity without decrypting the payload.
.TP
.B time\-lock
Generate a local hybrid SSS-Chained Time-Lock puzzle over a document using the standalone
.BR ITS\-self_enclosed_timelock
crate. Accepts
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file ", " \-e ", " \-\-epochs ", " and
.BR \-o ", " \-\-out .
.TP
.B time\-unlock
Sequentially solve the RSW96 squaring chain and decrypt a
.B .its
puzzle file. Accepts
.BR \-p ", " \-\-puzzle " and "
.BR \-o ", " \-\-out .
.TP
.B time\-deny
Construct an alternative puzzle that decrypts to a decoy message of equal length, demonstrating perfect deniability. Accepts
.BR \-p ", " \-\-puzzle ", " \-d ", " \-\-decoy ", " and
.BR \-o ", " \-\-out .
.SH MATHEMATICAL PROOF OF IMPREGNABILITY
The system uses Shamir's Secret Sharing over the prime field Z_{2^31-1}.
A polynomial of degree at most K-1 requires K points (shares) to reconstruct. Any observer (Eve) possessing K-1 or fewer shares has absolute zero-knowledge of the underlying secret.
Under Claude Shannon's Perfect Secrecy theorem, for any ciphertext C and any candidate message M:
.PP
.RS
.B P(M | C) = P(M)
.RE
.PP
Because the system is algebraically underdetermined (more unknowns than equations), for every possible guess Eve makes, there exists a unique, valid polynomial that mathematically justifies that guess. Thus, infinite computing power does not aid the attacker.
.SH SIDE-CHANNEL MITIGATIONS
All modular reduction, division-free Barrett reduction, and Fermat inversion loops are implemented in branchless constant-time. Additionally, active computational jitter is injected into sensitive algebraic loops to distort power and electromagnetic side-channels (DPA/TEMPEST).
.SH FILES
.I /etc/its-net/config.toml
.RS
Global daemon configuration file.
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Designed and built by 0x1F464.
