.TH ITS-ROUTING 1 "June 2026" "ITS-routing" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
its-routing \- UES Monocell Pool transport CLI (epoch cells, SSS, ValidFwd)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B its-routing
[\fB\-c \fIconfig_file\fR] [\fB\-h\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.I COMMAND
[\fIARGS...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B its-routing
implements Information-Theoretic Secrecy (ITS) transport via the UES Monocell Pool.
Production operators use \fBits-km send/receive\fR — this binary is the pool engine behind KM orchestration.
.PP
Default carrier is the epoch pool (\fB\-\-pool\fR when \fBtransport_mode = "pool"\fR in routing.toml).
ITS-A availability (witness mirrors, ValidFwd) is configured in TOML — not on the CLI.
.PP
See [ITS_CONSTITUTION_CLI.md] for the seven operator essentials.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c ", " \-\-config " config_file"
Path to routing.toml (pool, AEH, crypto sections). Defaults to /etc/its-routing/config.toml if present.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B client\-send
Publish a Shannon ITS wire to the UES Monocell Pool.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-pool
UES Monocell Pool transport (default when transport_mode=pool).
.TP
.BR \-\-no-pool
Disable pool default; use dev transport features.
.TP
.BR \-\-aeh
Manual AEH last-resort (no auto-switch from pool).
.TP
.BR \-\-ratchet-seed-file " " PATH
32-byte TransportOtpRatchet OTP seed (from \fBits-km export-ratchet-seed\fR or vault).
.TP
.BR \-\-fingerprint-erasure
Optional Gamma CR-NF before send.
.RE
.TP
.B client\-receive
Harvest pool cells and reconstruct the wire.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-pool
UES Monocell Pool harvest (default when transport_mode=pool).
.TP
.BR \-\-no-pool
Disable pool default.
.TP
.BR \-\-mailbox-fingerprint " " HEX|FILE
PoolMailbox contact hint (ciphertext scope).
.TP
.BR \-\-mailbox-strict
Reject reconstructions failing wire/OTM gate.
.TP
.BR \-\-continuous
Epoch-loop receive until wire found.
.TP
.BR \-\-timeout-secs " " N
Receive timeout in seconds.
.RE
.TP
.B start\-node
.B Dev-only.
Active onion routing daemon — not the production default. Requires dev-onion-mix feature build.
.TP
.B time\-lock
Generate a local hybrid deniable time-lock puzzle. Accepts
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file ", " \-e ", " \-\-epochs ", " and
.BR \-o ", " \-\-out .
.TP
.B time\-unlock
Solve RSW squaring chain and decrypt a .its puzzle. Accepts
.BR \-p ", " \-\-puzzle " and "
.BR \-o ", " \-\-out .
.TP
.B time\-deny
Decrypt to a decoy message of equal length (deniability). Accepts
.BR \-p ", " \-\-puzzle ", " \-d ", " \-\-decoy ", " and
.BR \-o ", " \-\-out .
.TP
.B fingerprint\-erasure
Standalone offline Gamma provenance erasure.
.SH OPERATOR IDENTITY
Vault, contacts, QR, and send/receive orchestration: use
.BR its-km (1).
Do not call \fBits-routing\fR or \fBits_asymmetric decrypt\fR directly in production.
.SH FILES
.I routing.toml
.RS
Pool mirrors (\fBmulti_pool_urls\fR, \fBwitness_pool_urls\fR) for online ITS-A;
\fBpool_file\fR directory for offline/sneakernet (\fBepoch_*.bin\fR cells).
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR its-km (1),
.BR ITS_CONSTITUTION_CLI.md
.SH AUTHOR
0x1F980
